# Interstellar Distances
The universe is a very big place — very, very big; okay, very, very, *very* big.

Our Milky Way galaxy comprises a very large volume (from our perspective), most of which is empty space.  The stellar density in the Solar neighborhood is about 0.004 stars per cubic lightyear.  That is to say, on average, every star has 250 cubic light-years of empty space surrounding it.  This equates to a cube 6.3 light-years on a side with the star in the center, or a sphere with a radius of 3.91 light-years.  This seems like a reasonable figure, since the closest star to Sol is Proxima Centauri, at about 4.2 light-years away.

The bright star, Deneb (α Cygni) is 2600 light-years from the Sun.  That's not a long distance compared to the galactic neighborhood (the Andromeda galaxy is 2.5 _million_ light-years away), and certainly not on the scale of the visible universe, which is currently calculated to be 93 **_billion_** light-years across.

If we think about what the term "light-year" actually _means_, we begin to intuit a problem.  A light-year is the distance light travels in one Earth year, so light takes a little under 4 years and 2½ months to get here from there.  Light (the fastest thing in the universe) coming from Deneb takes 2,600 _years_ to reach us from there.  In terms of human timeframes, light we see from Deneb today started its journey here the year Cambyses I became King of Persia.  *Never heard of him?  That's kind-of my point.*

Currently, the most distant human-made object in the universe is Voyager 1, which also has the fastest heliocentric recession speed of any artificial object at about $17$ kilometers per second.  It did its flyby of Saturn in 1980, and NASA officially marksedthe start iof ts journey out of the Solar system on January 1, 1990, almost $35$ years ago, as of this writing.  In that time, it has traversed $168$ Astronomical Units.  One AU is the distance from the Earth to the Sun, which is, on average, $146.9$ million kilometers.  That puts Voyager $25,132,458,000$ (25 _billion_) kilometers away.

That is a distance of $\mathbf{0.0027}$ light-years.  Yes, you read that right.  In $35$ years, Voyager I has covered about $\mathbf{\dfrac{1}{370}}$ of a light-year.  It will take in another $16483.74$ years to travel a full light-year, and when it reaches that distance, there will still be about $3$ light-years of empty space around it in every direction.  It will take $70217.39$ years to reach the distance of Proxima Centauri (though Voyager 1 isn't headed to Proxima Centauri).

Obviously, the propulsion methods we currently have at our disposal are not going to get us to the stars any time soon.

One way to circumvent this problem is to find ways to travel faster than even light does. (Can somebody please quiet down Einstein in the back of the room there?). Drives which accomplish faster-than-light (FTL) velocities have been posited in a wide variety of science fiction novels, movies, television shows, etc. *Hyperdrive*, among the earliest (in film at least) was mentioned in *Forbidden Planet* (1956), (more on thisbelow), but probably the first FTL system to become widely known (and copiously copied) was certainly *Star Trek*'s "warp drive”.